## NASR Minutes Interim 22 January 2024

Note takers: Luigi Iannone

### Opening - Luigi Iannone & Nancy Cam-Winget

- Any Comment on last meeting minutes?

No additional comments on published minutes.

### Discussion on official BoF Agenda: All

#### Agenda proposed in the BoF request:
- Note Well and Agenda Bashing - Chairs
    - Why are we here? - Chairs
    - Summary feedback previous BoF and how concerns have been addressed
- Internet-Drafts, speakers, timing
    - TBD 
- Open Mic Discussion
    - Feedback from the community
- Explore consensus and next steps


Nancy Cam-Winget: We need to spend the bulk of the time at the mic to discuss the proposed charter. Providing a summary of the problem statement that leads to the charter.Showing that this is work that belongs in the IETF, that has the right scope and what the WG is going to approach first. Focus on the problem and challenge we want to solve. We do not need to spend time on the solution, may be something on the architecture could be useful. The questions need to be asked in the end, and what the AD wanted to know is that 1. does this belong to the IETF, 2. is the scope right.

Michael Richardson: We can mention the existence of the draft to show that there is concrete work to do. To avoid any form of confusion we need to present this like it was the first time, so to have everybody on the same page.

Peter Chunchi Liu: So after the charter discussion there should be like a list of documents. 

Michael Richardson: I would put that under problem statement. 

Nancy Cam-Winget: In some other WGs we spent a lot of time making sure that the problem statement was well understood and refined what is achievable in the first charter, and then rechartered to move forward. 

Nancy Cam-Winget: Last time Michael showed some scenarios that were interesting.

Luigi Iannone/Peter Chunchi Liu: Peter: Michael's use case on lake leman/ swiss bank is a good one. It was liked by the audiences from the last BOF. 

Michael Richardson: It was a good example. It would be great if someone could articulate the various legal requirements that are coming down. [Lac Leman](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSjENNIVVXL-kaY-bJ8pWEnHhkKhejVGaajuqUSjEXhKRf7LzyggRY-xXYs-2N6CP0uECjhqv28CRFS/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000&slide=id.g327cf7bb13b_0_0)

Toerless Eckert: IESG will also look at if there a solid and diverse enough base of authors to do the work. This should be positioned in one or two slides. We should show focus, that there are drafts that are going to to achieve things that can be implemented, but I would not focus on the architecture as the core deliverable.

Luigi Iannone: During the 1st BoF the main concerns were: routing (out of scope); proof of non-transit (out of scope as impossible to solve); NASR mis-use in the Open Internet (does not apply - refer to IAB statement).

Xueyan Song: Agree the problem statement is the 1st priority. Based on the problem analysis we can define the scope. May be discuss also some objectives of the WG and relation to other WGs and other SDOs.

Meiling Chen: Focus only on the charter. Drafts can be summarized but without details. My concern is that discussion on the mic get stuck in architectural details.

Toerless Eckert: Would be good to have a killer use case use or having a minimum viable implementation. LISP spent years trying to find use cases that were making money. This can be used as positive argument if there is an MVP. Include researchers that are not interested in the use case but are able to validate the solution (e.g. P4 implementers).

Michael Richardson: SCION has a lot of interesting use cases presented at the SCION day.

Luigi Iannone: SCION is interesting but also quite different in some aspects . They do a lot of routing and no proof of transit.

Michael Richardson: It is more about the SCION use case rather than the SCION solution itself: Banking.

Meiling Chen: Try to draw on SCION's experience from swisscom and see what NASR can do to help SCION, and who will do this job.

Toerless Eckert: Would be good to have a document with the name of all people that support NASR because it solve their use case. Lot of people are looking through the documents and making decisions, especially from IESG. The document ephemeral.

Nancy Cam-Winget: When somebody presents the use cases as part of the problem statement, the set of slides could have the list of names of proponents and supporters. We do not need a document, just show that there is a community, so slides should be sufficient.

Toerless Eckert: LISP could be an adjacency i the IETF, because it creates an overlay but it doesn't have a fixed and done security architecture.

Luigi Iannone: Correct. I can think about which LISP use case NASR can improve.

Luigi Iannone: We need to start to structure the slides so that we we have something to discuss in the next meeting, which is 12th February

Peter Chunchi Liu: May be have a Google slide were we all iterate and work

Luigi Iannone: I'll create a shared Google slides.

**MAIN ACTION POINTS:**
- Work on the slides (via google docs)
- Reach out to people that may support NASR

### Next Meeting:

- **[12 February 2025 - 15:00 UTC](https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?qm=1&lid=2147714,1850147,1816670,2988507,100,5128581,5391959&h=100&date=2025-2-12&sln=15-16&hf=0)**
